1.5 Critical accounting estimates and judgments
a. Revenue recognition
The Group’s contracts with customers include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Revenues from customer contracts are
considered for recognition and measurement when the contract has been approved, in writing, by the parties to the contract, the parties to contract are
committed to perform their respective obligations under the contract, and the contract is legally enforceable. The Group assesses the services promised in a
contractandidentifiesdistinctperformanceobligationsinthecontract.Identificationofdistinctperformanceobligationstodeterminethedeliverablesandthe
abilityofthe customer to benefit independentlyfromsuch deliverables, and allocationof transactionprice to these distinct performance obligationsinvolves
significant judgment.
Fixed price maintenance revenue is recognized ratably on a straight-line basis when services are performed through an indefinite number of repetitive acts
over a specified period. Revenue from fixed price maintenance contract is recognized ratably using a percentage of completion method when the pattern of
benefits from the services rendered to the customer and the Group’s costs to fulfil the contract is not even through the period of the contract because the
services are generallydiscrete in nature and not repetitive. The use of method to recognize the maintenance revenues requires judgment and is based on the
promises in the contract and nature of the deliverables.
The Group usesthe percentage-of-completion method inaccountingfor otherfixed-price contracts.Useofthe percentage-of-completionmethod requiresthe
Grouptodeterminetheactualeffortsorcostsexpendedtodateasaproportionoftheestimatedtotaleffortsorcoststobeincurred.Effortsorcostsexpended
havebeenusedtomeasureprogresstowardscompletionasthereisadirectrelationshipbetweeninputandproductivity.Theestimationoftotaleffortsorcosts
involves significant judgment and is assessed throughout the period of the contract to reflect any changes based on the latest available information.
Contracts with customers includes subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements. In these
typesofarrangements,revenuefromsalesofthird-partyvendorproductsorservicesisrecordednetofcostswhentheGroupisactingasanagentbetweenthe
customerandthevendor,andgrosswhentheGroupistheprincipalforthetransaction.Indoingso,theGroupfirstevaluateswhetheritobtainscontrolofthe
specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer. The Group considers whether it is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to
providethespecifiedgoodsorservices,inventoryrisk,pricingdiscretionandotherfactorstodeterminewhetheritcontrolsthespecifiedgoodsorservicesand
therefore, is acting as a principal or an agent.
Provisionsforestimatedlosses,ifany,onincompletecontractsarerecordedintheperiodinwhichsuchlossesbecomeprobablebasedontheestimatedefforts
or costs to complete the contract.
b. Income taxes
The Group's two major tax jurisdictions are India and the United States, though the Company also files tax returns in other overseas jurisdictions.
Significant judgments are involved in determining the provision for income taxes, including amount expected to be paid / recovered for uncertain tax
positions.
Inassessingtherealizabilityofdeferredincometaxassets,theManagementconsiderswhethersomeportionorallofthedeferredincometaxassetswillnotbe
realized. The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which the
temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversals of deferred income tax liabilities, projected future taxable income
and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based on the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the
periods in which the deferred income tax assets are deductible, the Management believes that the Group will realize the benefits of those deductible
differences. The amount of the deferred income tax assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable
income during the carry forward period are reduced (Refer to Notes 2.15).
c. Business combinations and intangible assets
Business combinations are accounted for using Ind AS 103, Business Combinations. Ind AS 103 requires the identifiable intangible assets and contingent
consideration to be fair valued in order to ascertain the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. These valuations
are conducted by external valuation experts. Estimates are required to be made in determining the value of contingent consideration, value of option
arrangements and intangible assets. These measurements are based on information available at the acquisition date and are based on expectations and
assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Management (Refer to Note 2.1).
d. Property, plant and equipment
Property,plantandequipmentrepresentasignificantproportionoftheassetbaseoftheGroup.Thechargeinrespectofperiodicdepreciationisderivedafter
determininganestimateofanasset’sexpectedusefullifeandtheexpectedresidualvalueattheendofitslife.TheusefullivesandresidualvaluesofGroup's
assetsaredeterminedbytheManagementatthetimetheassetisacquiredandreviewedperiodically,includingateachfinancialyearend.Thelivesarebased
onhistoricalexperiencewithsimilarassetsaswellasanticipationoffutureevents,whichmayimpacttheirlife,suchaschangesintechnology(RefertoNote
2.2).
8