2. Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
2.1 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Accounting policy
Business combinations have been accounted for using the acquisition method under the provisions of Ind AS 103, Business Combinations.
Thepurchasepriceinanacquisitionismeasuredatthefair valueoftheassetstransferred,equityinstrumentsissued andliabilities incurredor assumedatthedate
of acquisition, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. The purchase price also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value on the date of
acquisition.Contingentconsiderationisremeasuredatfairvalueateachreportingdateandchangesinthefairvalueofthecontingentconsiderationarerecognized
in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s
identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity of subsidiaries.
Business combinations between entities under common control is accounted for at carrying value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Group's
consolidated financial statements.
The payments related to options issued by the Group over the non-controlling interests in its subsidiaries are accounted as financial liabilities and initially
recognizedattheestimatedpresentvalueofgrossobligations.Suchoptionsaresubsequentlymeasuredatfairvalueinordertoreflecttheamountpayableunderthe
option at the date at which it becomes exercisable. In the event that the option expires unexercised, the liability is derecognized.
Acquisitions during the year ended March 31, 2023
During the year ended March 31, 2023 the Group, completed two business combinations to complement its digital offerings by acquiring 100% voting interests in:
1) oddity GmbH, oddity group services GmbH, oddity space GmbH, oddity jungle GmbH, oddity code GmbH and oddity waves GmbH (collectively known as
oddity), a Germany-based digital marketing, experience, and commerce agencies on April 20, 2022.
2) BASE life science A/S, a consulting and technology firm in the life Science industry in Europe on September 1, 2022.
These acquisitions are expected to strengthen the Group’s creative, branding and experience design capabilities and augment the Group’s life sciences expertise,
scales its digital transformation capabilities with cloud based industry solutions and expand its presence across Europe.
The purchase price is allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon determination of fair values at the dates of acquisition as follows:
(In ₹ crore)
Component Acquiree's Fair value Purchase price allocated
carrying amount adjustments
Net Assets(1) 1 03 - 1 03
Intangible assets :
Customer contracts and relationships - 2 74 2 74
Vendor relationships - 3 0 3 0
Brand - 2 4 2 4
Deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets - ( 80) ( 80)
Total 1 03 2 48 351
Goodwill 6 30
Total purchase price 981
(1)Includes cash and cash equivalents acquired of ₹ 26 crore.
Theexcessofthepurchaseconsiderationpaidoverthefairvalueofassetsacquiredhasbeenattributedtogoodwill.Theprimaryitemsthatgeneratedthisgoodwill
are the value of the acquired assembled workforce and estimated synergies, neither of which qualify as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is not tax-deductible. Goodwill pertaining to these business combinations is allocated to operating segments as more fully described in Note 2.3.1.
The purchase consideration of ₹981 crore includes cash of ₹936 crore and contingent consideration with an estimated fair value of ₹45 crore as on the date of
acquisition.
At the acquisition date, the key inputs used in determination of the fair value of contingent consideration are the probabilities assigned towards achievement of
financial targets and discount rate of 12.5%. As of March 31, 2024 the contingent consideration was fully paid.
Additionally, these acquisitions have shareholder and employee retention bonus payable to the employees of the acquiree over three years, subject to their
continuous employment with the Group along with achievement of financial targets for the respective years. Performance and Retention Bonus is recognized in
employee benefit expenses in the Interim Condensed Consolidated Statement of Statement of Profit or Loss over the period of service.
Fair value of trade receivables acquired, is ₹111 crore as of acquisition date and as of March 31, 2024 the amounts are fully collected.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connectionwith a business combinationsuch asfinder’s fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, and other professional and
consulting fees are expensed as incurred. The transaction costs of ₹7 crore related to the acquisition have been included under administrative expenses in the
Interim Condensed Consolidated Statement of Statement of Profit or Loss for the year ended March 31, 2023.
10