2.3 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
2.3.1 Goodwill
Accounting policy
GoodwillrepresentsthepurchaseconsiderationinexcessoftheGroup'sinterestinthenetfairvalueofidentifiableassets,liabilitiesandcontingentliabilitiesoftheacquiredentity.Whenthenetfair
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired exceeds purchase consideration, the fair value of net assets acquired is reassessed and the bargain purchase gain is
recognized in capital reserve. Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and whenever there is an indication that the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit (CGU) is less than its carrying amount. For the
impairment test, goodwill is allocated to the CGU or groups of CGUs which benefit fromthe synergies of the acquisition and which represents the lowestlevel atwhich goodwill is monitored for
internal management purposes. A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
Impairment occurs when the carrying amount of a CGU including the goodwill, exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the CGU. The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair
value less cost to sell and its value-in-use. Value-in-use is the present value of future cash flows expected to be derived fromthe CGU. Key assumptions in the cash flowprojections are prepared
based on current economic conditions and includes estimated long term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated operating margins.
Following is a summary of changes in the carrying amount of goodwill:
(In ₹ crore)
Particulars As at
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023
Carrying value at the beginning 7,248 6,195
Goodwill on acquisitions (Refer to note 2.1) — 630
Translation differences 55 423
Carrying value at the end 7,303 7,248
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the CGU or groups of CGUs, which benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
2.3.2 Intangible Assets
Accounting policy
Intangibleassetsarestatedatcostlessaccumulatedamortizationandimpairment.Intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheirrespectiveindividualestimatedusefullivesonastraight-linebasis,from
the date that theyare available for use. The estimated usefullife ofan identifiable intangible asset is based on a number offactors includingthe effectsof obsolescence, demand, competition, and
othereconomicfactors(suchasthestabilityoftheindustry,andknowntechnologicaladvances)andthelevelofmaintenanceexpendituresrequiredtoobtaintheexpectedfuturecashflowsfromthe
asset. Amortization methods and useful lives are reviewed periodically including at each financial year end.
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Software product development costs are expensed as incurred unless technical and commercial feasibilityof the project is demonstrated, future economic
benefitsare probable, the Group has anintentionand abilityto complete and use or sellthe software and the costscanbe measured reliably. The costswhichcan be capitalized include the costof
material, direct labor, overhead costs that are directly attributable to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Impairment
Intangibleassetsareevaluatedforrecoverabilitywhenevereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethattheircarryingamountsmaynotberecoverable.Forthepurposeofimpairmenttesting,the
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Ifsuchassetsare considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized intheConsolidated StatementofProfitand Lossismeasuredbytheamountbywhichthecarryingvalueoftheassets
exceedstheestimatedrecoverableamountoftheasset.AnimpairmentlossisreversedintheConsolidatedStatementofProfitandLossiftherehasbeenachangeintheestimatesusedtodetermine
the recoverable amount. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined (net of any accumulated amortization) had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
14