2.21.2 McCamish Cybersecurity incident
InNovember 2023, InfosysMcCamishSystems(McCamish), a step-downsubsidiaryofInfosys Limited, experienced a cybersecurityincidentresulting inthe
non-availability of certain applications and systems. McCamish initiated its incident response and engaged cybersecurity and other specialists to assist in its
investigation of and response to the incident and remediation and restoration of impacted applications and systems. ByDecember 31, 2023, McCamish, with
external specialists’ assistance, substantially remediated and restored the affected applications and systems.
Loss of contracted revenues and costs incurred with respect to remediations, restoration, communication efforts, investigative processes and analysis, legal
services and others amounted to $38 million (approximately ₹316 crore).
Actions taken by McCamish included investigative analysis conducted by a third-party cybersecurity firm to determine, among other things, whether and the
extent to which company or customer data was subject to unauthorized access or exfiltration. McCamish also engaged a third-party eDiscovery vendor in
assessing the extent and nature of such data. McCamish in coordination with its third-party eDiscovery vendor has identified corporate customers and
individuals whose information was subject to unauthorized access and exfiltration. McCamish’s review process is ongoing. McCamish may incur additional
costs including indemnities or damages/claims, which are indeterminable at this time.
OnMarch6,2024,aclassactioncomplaintwasfiledintheU.S.DistrictCourtfortheNorthernDistrictofGeorgiaagainstMcCamish. Thecomplaintarises
outofthecybersecurityincidentatMcCamishinitiallydisclosedonNovember3,2023. Thecomplaintwaspurportedlyfiledonbehalfofallindividualswithin
the United States whose personally identifiable information was exposed to unauthorized third parties as a result of the incident.
2.21.3 Legal Proceedings
Apart from this, the Group is subject to legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. The Group’s management
reasonably expects that such ordinary course legal actions, when ultimately concluded and determined, will not have a material and adverse effect on the
Group’s results of operations or financial condition.
2.21.4 Commitments
(In ₹ crore)
As at
Particulars
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital contracts and not provided for (net of
780 959
advances and deposits)(1)
Other commitments* 79 92
(1) Capital contracts primarily comprises of commitments for infrastructure facilities and computer equipment.
* Uncalled capital pertaining to investments
35