2X14AO .16 REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
Accounting policy
TheGroupderivesrevenuesprimarilyfromIT servicescomprisingsoftware developmentand relatedservices, cloudand infrastructureservices, maintenance,consultingandpackage
implementation, licensing of software products and platforms across the Group’s core and digital offerings (together called as “software related services”) and business process
management services. Contracts with customers are either on a time-and-material, unit of work, fixed-price or on a fixed-timeframe basis.
Revenuesfromcustomercontractsareconsideredforrecognitionandmeasurementwhenthecontracthasbeenapprovedinwritingbytheparties,tothecontract,thepartiestocontract
arecommittedtoperformtheirrespectiveobligationsunderthecontract,andthecontractislegallyenforceable.Revenueisrecognizedupontransferofcontrolofpromisedproductsor
services(“performance obligations”) to customersinanamountthat reflectsthe considerationthe Group hasreceived or expectsto receive inexchange for these products orservices
(“transaction price”). When there is uncertainty as to collectability, revenue recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is resolved.
The Group assesses the services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract. The Group allocates the transaction price to each distinct
performanceobligationbasedontherelativestandalonesellingprice.Thepricethatisregularlychargedforanitemwhensoldseparatelyisthe bestevidence ofitsstandaloneselling
price. In the absence of such evidence, the primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin, under which the Group estimates the cost of
satisfying the performance obligation and then adds an appropriate margin based on similar services.
The Group’s contracts may include variable consideration including rebates, volume discounts and penalties. The Group includes variable consideration as part of transaction price
whenthereisabasistoreasonablyestimatetheamountofthevariableconsiderationandwhenitisprobablethatasignificantreversalofcumulativerevenuerecognizedwillnotoccur
when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Revenueontime-and-materialandunitofworkbasedcontracts,arerecognizedastherelatedservicesareperformed.Fixedpricemaintenancerevenueisrecognizedratablyeitherona
straight-line basis when services are performed through an indefinite number of repetitive acts over a specified period or ratably using a percentage of completion method when the
patternofbenefitsfromthe servicesrendered to the customer and the Group’s coststo fulfil the contract is not even throughthe period of contract because the services are generally
discrete in nature and not repetitive. Revenue from other fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts, where the performance obligations are satisfied over time is recognized using the
percentage-of-completion method. Efforts or costs expended are used to determine progress towards completion as there is a direct relationship between input and productivity.
Progresstowardscompletionismeasured asthe ratio ofcostsor effortsincurred to date (representingworkperformed) to the estimated total costsor efforts. Estimates oftransaction
price and total costs or efforts are continuously monitored over the term of the contracts and are recognized in net profit in the period when these estimates change or when the estimates
are revised. Revenues and the estimated total costs or efforts are subject to revision as the contract progresses. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on incomplete contracts are
recorded in the period in which such losses become probable based on the estimated efforts or costs to complete the contract.
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based billing and / or milestone based progress billings. Revenues in excess of billing are classified as
unbilled revenue while billing in excess of revenues are classified as contract liabilities (which we refer to as unearned revenues).
In arrangements for software development and related services and maintenance services, by applying the revenue recognition criteria for each distinct performance obligation, the
arrangements with customers generally meet the criteria for considering software development and related services as distinct performance obligations. For allocating the transaction
price, the Group measures the revenue in respect of each performance obligation of a contract at its relative standalone selling price. The price that is regularly charged for an item
whensoldseparatelyisthebestevidenceofitsstandalonesellingprice.IncaseswheretheGroupisunabletodeterminethestandalonesellingprice,theGroupusestheexpectedcost
plusmarginapproachinestimatingthe standalone sellingprice. For software development and related services, the performance obligations are satisfied asand whenthe servicesare
rendered since the customer generally obtains control of the work as it progresses.
Certain cloud and infrastructure services contracts include multiple elements which may be subject to other specific accounting guidance, such as leasing guidance. These contracts
are accounted in accordance with such specific accounting guidance. In such arrangements where the Group is able to determine that hardware and services are distinct performance
obligations, it allocates the consideration to these performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. In the absence of standalone selling price, the Group uses the
expectedcost-plusmarginapproachinestimatingthestandalonesellingprice.Whensuch arrangementsareconsideredasasingleperformanceobligation,revenueisrecognized over
the period and measure of progress is determined based on promise in the contract.
Revenuefromlicenseswherethecustomerobtainsa“righttouse”thelicensesisrecognizedatthetimethelicensearemadeavailabletothecustomer.Revenuefromlicenseswherethe
customer obtains a “right to access” is recognized over the access period.
Arrangementstodeliversoftwareproductsgenerallyhavethreeelements:license,implementationandAnnualTechnicalServices(ATS).Whenimplementationservicesareprovidedin
conjunction with the licensing arrangement and the license and implementation have been identified as two distinct separate performance obligations, the transaction price for such
contractsareallocatedtoeachperformanceobligationofthecontractbasedontheirrelativestandalonesellingprices.Intheabsenceofstandalonesellingpriceforimplementation,the
Groupusestheexpectedcostplusmarginapproachinestimatingthestandalonesellingprice.Wherethelicenseisrequiredtobesubstantiallycustomizedaspartoftheimplementation
servicetheentirearrangementfeeforlicenseandimplementationisconsideredtobeasingleperformanceobligationandtherevenueisrecognizedusingthepercentage-of-completion
method as the implementation is performed. Revenue from client training, support and other services arising due to the sale of software products is recognized as the performance
obligations are satisfied. ATS revenue is recognized ratably on a straight line basis over the period in which the services are rendered.
Contracts with customers includes subcontractor services or third-party vendor equipment or software in certain integrated services arrangements. In these types of arrangements,
revenue fromsales of third-partyvendor products or servicesis recorded net ofcosts whenthe Group is actingas anagent betweenthe customer and the vendor, and gross whenthe
Groupistheprincipalforthetransaction.Indoingso,theGroupfirstevaluateswhetheritobtainscontrolofthespecifiedgoodsorservicesbeforetheyaretransferredtothecustomer.
The Group considers whether it is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified goods or services, inventory risk, pricing discretion and other factors to
determine whether it controls the specified goods or services and therefore, is acting as a principal or an agent.
A contract modification is a change in the scope or price or both of a contract that is approved by the parties to the contract. A contract modification that results in the addition of
distinct performance obligations are accounted for either as a separate contract if the additional services are priced at the standalone selling price or as a termination of the existing
contractandcreationofanewcontractiftheyarenotpricedatthestandalonesellingprice.Ifthemodificationdoesnotresultinadistinctperformanceobligation,itisaccountedforas
part of the existing contract on a cumulative catch-up basis.
28