2.14 PROVISIONS
Accounting policy
Aprovisionisrecognized if,asaresultofapastevent,theGrouphasapresentlegalorconstructiveobligationthatisreasonablyestimable,anditisprobablethat
anoutflowofeconomic benefitswillbe required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined bydiscountingthe expectedfuture cashflowsata pre-taxrate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
a. Post sales client support
The Group provides itsclientswitha fixed-period post salessupport onits fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts. Costs associated with suchsupport servicesare
accrued at the time related revenues are recorded and included in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. The Group estimates such costs based on historical
experience and estimates are reviewed on a periodic basis for any material changes in assumptions and likelihood of occurrence.
b. Onerous contracts
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognized when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of
meeting the future obligations under the contract. Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on incomplete contracts are recorded in the period in which such losses
becomeprobablebasedontheestimatedeffortsorcoststocompletethecontract.Theprovisionismeasuredatthepresentvalueoftheloweroftheexpectedcostof
terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established the Group recognizes any impairment loss on the
assets associated with that contract.
Provision for post-sales client support and other provisions:
(In ₹ crore)
Particulars As at
March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023
Current
Others
Post-sales client support and other provisions 1,796 1,307
Total provisions 1,796 1,307
Provisionforpostsalesclientsupport andother provisionsmajorlyrepresentscostsassociatedwithprovidingsalessupportserviceswhichare accruedatthetime
of recognition of revenues and are expected to be utilized over a period of 1 year.
Provision for post sales client support and other provisions is included in cost of sales in the condensed consolidated statement of profit and loss.
26